Corresponding code to the paper:

# Influence of Status on Consensus Building in Collaboration Networks

In  this  paper,  we  analyze  the  influence  of  social status  on  opinion  dynamics  and  consensus  building  in collab-oration  networks.  To  that  end,  we  simulate  the  diffusion  ofopinions   in   empirical   collaboration   networks   by   taking   into account  both  the  network  structure  and  the  individual  differences  of  people  reflected  through  their  social  status.  For  our simulations,  we  adapt  a  well-known  Naming  Game  model  and extend  it  with Probabilistic  Meeting  Rule to  account  for  the social   status   of   individuals   participating   in   a   meeting.   This mechanism is sufficiently flexible and allows us to model various situations  in  collaboration  networks  such  as  the  emergence  or disappearance  of  social  classes.  In  this  work,  we  concentrate on studying three well-known forms of class society: egalitarian, ranked and stratified society.  In  particular,  we  are  interested  in the  way  how  these  society  forms  facilitate  opinion  diffusion. Our  experimental  findings  reveal  that  (i)  opinion  dynamics  in collaboration networks is indeed affected by the individual social status  and  (ii)  that  this  impact  is  intricate  and  non-obvious.  Inparticular,  although  the  social  status  favors  consensus  building, relying  too  strongly  upon  the  social  status  can  slow  down  the opinion  diffusion.  This  result  indicates  that  there  is  a  specific setting  for  each  collaboration  network  in  which  social  status optimally benefits the consensus building process.

Link to the full paper will follow as soon as it gets published.
